Midterm Project
================
Jiayi Zhou

## Problem 1: Data

**Raw dataset**: The dog weights raw dataset has six variables. The
first column contains the date of each weighing from August 12nd, 2018
to September 7th, 2020, while some dates in this period were not
recorded. The second to fifth columns contain information about the
weights of three dogs and a standard object: Raisin, Simon, Gagne, and
std. All weights were recorded in the unit of Lbs and Oz. The last
column contains occasional notes about kennel.

``` r
dogweights_df =
  read_excel("./dogweights_07sept2020.xlsx", skip = 1) %>% 
  janitor::clean_names() %>%
  mutate(date = as.numeric(date),
         date = janitor::excel_numeric_to_date(date)) %>% 
  select(-x6) %>% 
  separate(date, into = c("year", "month", "day"), sep = "-" ) %>% 
  pivot_longer(
    raisin:std,
    names_to = "dognames_and_std",
    values_to = "weights"
  ) %>% 
  separate(weights, into = c("Lbs", "Oz"), sep = " ") %>% 
  mutate(
    Lbs = as.numeric(Lbs),
    Oz = as.numeric(Oz),
    weights_in_Lbs = Lbs + Oz * 0.0625
    ) %>% 
  drop_na(weights_in_Lbs, year) %>% 
  select(-Lbs, -Oz)
```

    ## New names:
    ## * `` -> ...6

    ## Warning: Problem with `mutate()` input `date`.
    ## ℹ NAs introduced by coercion
    ## ℹ Input `date` is `as.numeric(date)`.

    ## Warning in mask$eval_all_mutate(dots[[i]]): NAs introduced by coercion

    ## Warning: Expected 2 pieces. Missing pieces filled with `NA` in 2 rows [157,
    ## 465].

``` r
dogweights_df
```

    ## # A tibble: 550 x 5
    ##    year  month day   dognames_and_std weights_in_Lbs
    ##    <chr> <chr> <chr> <chr>                     <dbl>
    ##  1 2018  08    12    raisin                     19.8
    ##  2 2018  08    12    simone                     10.9
    ##  3 2018  08    12    gagne                      10.6
    ##  4 2018  08    19    raisin                     20.2
    ##  5 2018  08    19    simone                     11.1
    ##  6 2018  08    19    gagne                      10.8
    ##  7 2018  08    19    std                        21.0
    ##  8 2018  08    22    raisin                     20.2
    ##  9 2018  08    22    simone                     11.2
    ## 10 2018  08    22    gagne                      10.8
    ## # … with 540 more rows

**Descriptions of the steps for tidying the dogweights\_df dataframe**:
variable, then the excel\_numeric\_to\_date from the janitor package was
used to convert the serial number observations to date class. For better
readability and convenient filtering that might take place in the
future, I further separate “date” into “year”, “month”, and “day”. Next,
I put all dog names and the “std” representing standard objects all into
the dognames\_and\_std columns since they are all names. The weights
associated with each name on each day were also converted to Lbs and
then organized into “weights\_in\_Lbs” columns. To convert the weight
unit, separation of the weight in Lbs and weights in Oz was done first.
Then, weights in Oz times coefficient 0.0625 was added back to Lbs to
get the total weight in single unit Lbs. Furthermore, the NAs in the new
variable “weights\_in\_Lbs” can be dropped without interfering with
other useful observations. There were also several NAs in the three
date-related variables resulted from an “s” entry in “date” in the raw
dataset. Thus, I chose to drop all missing values in “year” which helped
me to leave out all NAs associated with the “s” entry. the date of each
weighing from August 12nd, 2018 to September 7th, 2020, while some dates
in this period were not recorded. The second to fifth columns contain
information about the weights of three dogs and a standard object:
Raisin, Simon, Gagne, and std. All weights were recorded in the unit of
Lbs and Oz. The last column contains occasional notes.
